=RSolr::Ext
A set of helper methods/modules to assist in building Solr queries and handling responses when using the RSolr library.

== Installation:
  gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org
  sudo gem install rsolr-ext

==Related Resources & Projects
* {RSolr}[http://github.com/mwmitchell/rsolr]

==Requests
To use the RSolr::Ext connection instead of the normal RSolr connection:
  solr = RSolr::Ext.connect

RSolr::Ext adds a #find and a #luke_admin method to the connection object.

===#luke
The #luke method returns a Hash/Mash result of a /admin/luke?numTerms=0 request:
  luke_response = solr.luke
  luke_response['index']
  luke_response['fields']
  luke_response['info']


===#find
The #find method listens for certain keys. All other keys are ignored, allowing the ability to mix-and-match special keys with normal Solr param keys. The recognized keys are describe below.


:page - This maps to the Solr "start" param. The current "page" in the results set. RSolr::Ext handles the page-to-rows math for you.


:per_page - This maps to the Solr "rows" param. How many "pages" in the result.


:queries - This key maps to the Solr "q" param. Accepts a string, array or hash. When an array is used, each value is joined by a space. When a hash is used, the keys are used as Solr fields.

* :queries => 'normal' BECOMES ?q=normal
* :queries => ['one', 'two'] BECOMES ?q=one two
* :queries => {:title=>'one'} BECOMES ?q=title:(one)
* :queries => ['red', {:title=>'one'}] BECOMES ?q=red title:(one)


:phrases - This value is mapped to the Solr "q" param. When this key is used, the value will become double-quoted, creating a Solr "phrase" based query.

* :phrases => 'normal' BECOMES ?q="normal"
* :phrases => ['one', 'two'] BECOMES ?q="one" "two"
* :phrases => {:title=>'one'} BECOMES ?q=title:("one")
* :phrases => ['red', {:title=>'one'}] BECOMES ?q="red" title:("one") 


:filters - The :filters key maps to the Solr :fq param. This has the same behavior as the :queries key, except it's for the :fq param.

* :filters => 'normal' BECOMES ?fq=normal
* :filters => ['one', 'two'] BECOMES ?fq=one two
* :filters => {:title=>'one'} BECOMES ?fq=title:(one)
* :filters => ['red', {:title=>'one'}] BECOMES ?fq=red title:(one)
 

:phrase_filters - The :phrase_filters key maps to the Solr :fq param. This has the same behavior as the :phrases key, except it's for the :fq param.

* :phrase_filters => 'normal' BECOMES ?fq="normal"
* :phrase_filters => ['one', 'two'] BECOMES ?fq="one" "two"
* :phrase_filters => {:title=>'one'} BECOMES ?fq=title:("one")
* :phrase_filters => ['red', {:title=>'one'}] BECOMES ?fq="red" title:("one")
 

:facets - The :facets does a few different things. First, it sets the Solr param facet=true. It accepts a hash with a single key called :fields. This should be an array of field names to facet on.

* :facets=>{:fields=>['cat', 'blah']} BECOMES ?facet=true&facet.field=cat&facet.field=blah



==Request Example
  solr = RSolr::Ext.connect
  solr_params = {
    :page=>2,
    :per_page=>10,
    :phrases=>{:name=>'This is a phrase'},
    :filters=>['test', {:price=>(1..10)}],
    :phrase_filters=>{:manu=>['Apple']},
    :queries=>'ipod',
    :facets=>{:fields=>['cat', 'blah']},
    :echoParams => 'EXPLICIT'
  }
  response = rsolr.find solr_params

==Responses
RSolr::Ext decorates the normal output hash from RSolr and adds some helpful methods.
  
  solr = RSolr::Ext.connect
  
  response = solr.find :q=>'*:*'
  
  response.ok?
  response.params
  response.docs
  response.docs.previous_page
  response.docs.next_page
  response.facets.each do |facet|
    puts facet.name
    facet.items.each do |item|
      puts "#{facet.name}::#{item.value} (#{item.hits})"
    end
  end

You can access values in the response hash using symbols or strings.

===Documents/Pagination
If you wanna paginate, just throw the collection into the WillPaginate view helper.
  <%= will_paginate response.docs %>

==The "Model" Module
You can create your own <read-only> "models" using RSolr::Ext::Model
  
  class Book
    include RSolr::Ext::Model
    def self.find_by_author(author)
        find(:fq=>'object_type:"book"', :rows=>10, :phrase_filters=>{:author=>author})
    end
  end
  
  all_books = Book.find('*:*')
  hawk_books = Book.find_by_author('hawk')